v0.19.0 db namespace


## `db` namespace

All database specific modules have been unified in the `db` namespace in preparation for introducing
molecule implementations for other data systems like GraphQL, Rest, etc.


    
## Automatic code generation setup

The stb MoleculePlugin has been re-designed to offer command-based code generation without any setup.

Before, you had to tediously setup several sbt plugin settings in your build.sbt file to enable molecule boilerplate code generation and list the paths to your domain structure files.

But now you can simply enable the Molecule plugin with no additional settings!

```scala
.enablePlugins(MoleculePlugin)
```
This is enouch to then generate Molecule boilerplate code with one of the following commands:

### Generate sources

Generate all molecule boilerplate code with:
```
sbt moleculeGen
```

Molecule scans your project directories recursively with ScalaMeta for Domain Structure definition files and generates boilerplate code automatically. Code is generated in the `src_managed/moleculeGen` namespace to isolate it safely from code generated by other sbt plugins.

You can combine with other sbt actions:
```
sbt moleculeGen compile
sbt clean moleculeGen compile
// etc..
```

Omit code generation for some domain structure by setting the maxArity to 0:

```scala
object Foo extends DomainStructure(0) {
  // definitions..
}
```


### Generate sources, compile and package

You can even generate, compile and package molecule code into jar files with a single command: 
```
sbt moleculePackage
```
This 

1. generates sources, 
2. compiles,
3. packages into class/source jar files in the `/lib` directory of your project and 
4. clean up generated sources so that only the jars remain. 
 
This is useful to avoid re-compiling the generated code when rebuilding your project.

The only caveat is that IntelliJ in some cases doesn't infer the type-rich generated code correctly although it's correct and compiles fine. So this option can be a good alternative when your domain structure has stabilized. And hopefully, IntelliJ will catch up soon.


## Simplified backend setup with db choice

Molecule now offers 8 different minimal backend setups that you can start out from and successively add your own api endpoints.

To see how you can test using molecules from Scala JS, you can for instance run `coreTests` in the Molecule project:

```
git clone https://github.com/scalamolecule/molecule.git
cd molecule
sbt server/run
```
Then you can enter a number to choose which backend you want to use:
```
Please choose a database and a server backend to test the Molecule RPC API:

  1  H2
  2  MariaDB
  3  MySQL
  4  PostgreSQL
  5  SQlite
  6  Datomic

Database: 1

  1  Armeria
  2  Http4s
  3  Netty
  4  Pekko
  5  Play
  6  Vert.x
  7  ZioHttp

Server: 3

Press ENTER to stop the server.
✅ Netty server running on http://localhost:8080 for H2

// running tests...

🛑 Shutting down server...
```

And in another process you can run one of the following commands to run the test with the database of your choice:

```
sbt dbDatalogDatomicJS/test
sbt dbSqlH2JS/test
sbt dbSqlMariaDBJS/test
sbt dbSqlMySQLJS/test
sbt dbSqlPostgreSQLJS/test
sbt dbSqlSQliteJS/test
```
MariaDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQlite require docker to be running. 


Haven't found a way yet to run tests fast with MariaDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL in this setup. 
Help would be appreciated on how to reuse the connection or something.